README.md, before:

# Chemotion Converter Profiles & Readers Index

This repository builds and publishes a GitHub Pages site that documents Chemotion Converter profiles and readers. It collects metadata from JSON profiles and reader code, renders a Markdown index, and then produces a static HTML page in `docs/`.

## What This Repo Does
- Generates a readable index of available profiles and readers.
- Publishes the index to GitHub Pages on every push to `main`.
- Keeps profile metadata and readers in sync with the Converter package.

## Installation
This project depends on the `chemotion-converter-app` package (installed directly from GitHub) plus local Python tooling.

Requirements:
- Python 3.12
- Git (to install the Converter package from GitHub)

Steps:
```bash
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
python -m pip install --upgrade pip
python -m pip install --no-cache-dir -r requirements.txt
```

The dependency on `chemotion-converter-app` is declared in `requirements.txt` and pulled from:
`git+https://github.com/ComPlat/chemotion-converter-app`.

## Folder Structure
```
.
├─ .github/workflows/        # GitHub Actions workflow for build + deploy
├─ build/                    # Generated Markdown artifacts (local output)
├─ data_files/               # Example and sample input files
├─ docs/                     # GitHub Pages output (generated)
├─ profile_manager/          # Build script, templates, and helpers
├─ profiles/                 # Profile JSON files (public + other sets)
├─ readers/                  # Local reader implementations (reference)
├─ requirements.txt          # Python dependencies
└─ README.md                 # Project documentation
```

## Build Workflow
The index is rebuilt whenever profiles change or new profiles are uploaded.

Local rebuild:
```bash
python -m profile_manager build_index
```

This command:
- Reads profiles from `profiles/public/`.
- Scans reader classes from the Converter package.
- Renders a Markdown index (`index.md`) and injects it into `docs/index.html`
  using `profile_manager/index_template.html`.

## GitHub Pages Workflow (Rebuild on Push)
The GitHub Actions workflow in `/.github/workflows/build_and_deploy.yml` runs on:
- Every push to `main`.
- Manual workflow dispatch.

On each run, it installs dependencies, builds the index, and publishes the
contents of `docs/` to GitHub Pages. This means every profile upload or change
that gets pushed to `main` automatically triggers a rebuild and redeploy.

---
Created: 2026-01-22  
Last updated: 2026-01-22

Commit message:

Ols dataset getter (#7)
* add ols label finder

* loop docu

* adding ols to Ag grid

* adding impressum

* fixing missing key for type tableHeader

README.md, after:

# Chemotion Converter Profiles & Readers Index

This repository builds and publishes a GitHub Pages site that documents Chemotion Converter profiles and readers. It collects metadata from JSON profiles and reader code, enriches profile metadata with CHMO ontology labels, and produces a static HTML page in `docs/`.

## What This Repo Does
- Generates a readable index of available profiles and readers (interactive tables).
- Publishes the index to GitHub Pages on every push to `main`.
- Mirrors profiles and reader source files into `docs/atch/server/` for download links.
- Keeps profile metadata and readers in sync with the Converter package.

## Installation
This project depends on the `chemotion-converter-app` package (installed directly from GitHub) plus local Python tooling.

Requirements:
- Python 3.12
- Git (to install the Converter package from GitHub)

Steps:
```bash
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
python -m pip install --upgrade pip
python -m pip install --no-cache-dir -r requirements.txt
```

The dependency on `chemotion-converter-app` is declared in `requirements.txt` and pulled from:
`git+https://github.com/ComPlat/chemotion-converter-app`.

## Folder Structure
```
.
├─ .github/workflows/        # GitHub Actions workflow for build + deploy
├─ build/                    # Generated Markdown artifacts (local output)
├─ data_files/               # Example and sample input files
├─ docs/                     # GitHub Pages output (generated)
├─ profile_manager/          # Build script, templates, and helpers
├─ profiles/                 # Profile JSON files (public + other sets)
├─ readers/                  # Local reader implementations (reference)
├─ requirements.txt          # Python dependencies
└─ README.md                 # Project documentation
```

## Build Workflow
The index is rebuilt whenever profiles change or new profiles are uploaded.

Local rebuild:
```bash
python -m profile_manager build_index
```

This command:
- Reads profiles from `profiles/public/`.
- Scans reader classes from the installed `converter_app` package (via `importlib.resources`).
- Extracts reader metadata (class name, identifier, priority, and `check()` code) from AST parsing.
- Detects CHMO identifiers anywhere in a profile and fetches the ontology label from OLS4.
- Copies profiles and reader source files into `docs/atch/server/` for download links.
- Renders an HTML index in `docs/index.html` using `profile_manager/index_template.html`.

## Generated Output
Build artifacts are written to:
- `docs/index.html` (GitHub Pages landing page with interactive tables)
- `docs/atch/server/profiles/` (downloadable profile JSON files)
- `docs/atch/server/readers/` (downloadable reader source files)

## AG Grid (Frontend)
The interactive tables in `docs/index.html` run entirely in the browser. AG Grid is not bundled in this repo; it is loaded at runtime from a CDN via external `<link>` and `<script>` tags that are injected by the build step (`profile_manager.__main__.py` in `dict_to_ag_grid_html`).

## GitHub Pages Workflow (Rebuild on Push)
The GitHub Actions workflow in `/.github/workflows/build_and_deploy.yml` runs on:
- Every push to `main`.
- Manual workflow dispatch.

On each run, it installs dependencies, builds the index, and publishes the
contents of `docs/` to GitHub Pages. This means every profile upload or change
that gets pushed to `main` automatically triggers a rebuild and redeploy.

---
Created: 2026-01-22  
Last updated: 2026-01-29
